# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-03-05

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 17:00 to 17:30 UTC
    - 18:00 to 18:30 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 12:30 EST (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 09:30 PST (America/Los Angeles)
    - 02:00 to 02:30 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ydj-qwbs-iiv
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWliM3RyZXRpdmI4NXFoYXR1MzRkdmg0a3ZfMjAyNTAxMjJUMTcwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Minutes of the 2025-02-19 meeting -- https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/meetings/2025-02-19.md
- Overview of current core spec updating
    - GitHub project board https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
    - Component-focused encoding etc.  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1biOCUY4eCqQaYmfGDHVrASV9igYEzct6
    - Open issues/PRs https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, PURL, AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- David Walluck
- Immanuel Kunz, Fraunhofer AISEC
- Joshua Kugler, Adobe
- Jaime Rodr√≠guez-Guerra, Quansight
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow


## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, but the meeting is not being recorded.
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Agenda items:
    - David: general info plus Java focus
    - Immanuel: version range
    - John: qualifiers/character encoding update
    - Joshua: general info plus a spec ambiguity they're working through
    - Michael: nothing in particular
    - Philippe: qualifiers PR
    - Jaime: follow-up from last meeting
        - Reply to https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/386#issuecomment-2636210323
        - https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/222
    - Steve: nothing in particular
- Philippe: Let's start with Immanuel's PR: https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/343 .  Discussion followed on this and several issues from other participants.
- Philippe: qualifiers.  Discussion of percent-encoding, need for clarity.  Philippe: should be simple and clear and expressed in the "Character encoding" section.
- Philippe: Let's turn to Steve's JSON Schema PR.  Steve: The PR includes markdown automatically generated from the JSON.  Philippe: `.rst` vs `.md` but that's minor.  Explored examples.  Steve: normalization is also an important issue and there are behaviors/definitions that are incorrect (e.g., upper vs lower casing).  Joshua: Invalid names can be/are an issue.  Philippe: need to avoid changing rules rather than simply clarifying the spec.  Steve: if we move forward with describing types with JSON, there are issues to address.  Philippe and Steve discussed.  Brief discussion of YAML.  Steve: looking for an answer on `.md` vs. `.rst`.
- The meeting was adjourned.
