
<!-- markdownlint-disable-line MD041 -->

# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-01-22

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 17:00 to 18:00 UTC
    - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 02:00 to 03:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ydj-qwbs-iiv
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWliM3RyZXRpdmI4NXFoYXR1MzRkdmg0a3ZfMjAyNTAxMjJUMTcwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Overview of current core spec updating
    - GitHub project board https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
    - component-focused encoding etc.  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1biOCUY4eCqQaYmfGDHVrASV9igYEzct6
    - master issues/PRs https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Adam Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Martin Prpic, Red Hat
- Doug Clarke, Oracle
- Jan Kowalleck, Sovereign Tech Agency

## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, but the meeting is not being recorded.
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Philippe: not an official Ecma call.
- Preliminary matters, proposed agenda.
- Updating overview:
    - GitHub project board (link in agenda above)
    - component-focused encoding etc. (link in agenda above)
    - master issues/PRs (link in agenda above)
    - Implementation of RFC 2119/8174 but without using "not/NOT"
- Philippe: shared the project board
    - PR 373 re RFC 2119/8174 – good comments, but many unrelated to the narrow focus
    - Eventually will be parsed into separate narrow issues → narrow PRs
    - Contributions to individual items would be very helpful
    - Philippe walked us briefly through the board and the "encoding" gSheet, described how the logistics of the process could work, and created and fleshed out some new items → new focused issues, illustrating the process.  Goal: a simple PR.  Quick view of the scheme-focused PR 361.
    - Hope to finalize core spec updating by the end of March ideally (and earlier if possible).
    - Martin: would like to take on one of these – "Clarify spec for version" (issue 380).  Philippe: inviting Martin to join the project; done.
    - Jan: will take on the subpath component – "Clarify spec for subpath" (issue 379).
- Philippe: Brief recap.  A JSON Schema is a goal going forward.
- The meeting was adjourned.
