# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-07-23

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
    - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- GitHub project board – https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
- Website presentation by Matt Rutkowski and colleagues
- Jaime: Request for new univers release to unblock https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python/pull/186
- Jaime: How (late am I) to propose modifications to the conda type?
    - Related discussion in the conda community: https://github.com/conda/ceps/pull/63#discussion_r2200716517

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Jon Moroney
- Immanuel Kunz
- Tom Alrich
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra, Quansight
- Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali, IBM Intern
- Steve Springett, ServiceNow / OWASP Foundation
- Ralf Duli, IBM Intern
- Nisha Kumar, Oracle
- Joshua Kugler

## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
    - Jaime: Request for new univers release to unblock https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python/pull/186
- Summary
    - Matt Rutkowski announced a website presentation by interns Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali and Ralf Duli, showcasing backend functionality and future styling.
    - Philippe Ombredanne provided an update on a major pull request for the PURL type JSON Schema, which will transition to a structured, generated single file for each package type and will simplify documentation.
    - Michael Herzog emphasized the urgency of merging the JSON Schema PR to facilitate progress towards the PURL Spec 0.90 release.
    - Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra requested a release for the univers project to unblock work on PEP 725, which Philippe Ombredanne agreed to handle.
    - The team discussed the JSON Schema version, with Michael Herzog proposing Draft 7 for immediate use.
- **Website Presentation** Matt Rutkowski announced a website presentation by the interns, Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali and Ralph, who are working on the project (00:00:00). They presented the current backend functionality, which includes converting files to markdown and generating a sidebar for PURL specs (00:04:58).
- **Website Styling and Future Plans** Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali mentioned that the front end styling will match CycloneDX styles and colors, with the project built primarily on Docusaurus (00:05:52). Matt Rutkowski elaborated on the front page plan, which includes a rotating GIF showing different implementations. Michael Herzog noted that a pending major PR will convert everything to MD as native, which should simplify future work (00:07:06).
- **Community Engagement and PRs** Michael Herzog mentioned the importance of having real people working on the project and Philippe Ombredanne acknowledged the great work by the interns and Matt Rutkowski (00:08:03). Michael Herzog noted that a color scheme or logo for PURL is not yet finalized, but the CycloneDX one is a good starting point (00:09:25). The team plans to target the next two-week community meeting to review the website again (00:12:40).
- **OpenSSF Persona website** Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra shared that the OpenSSF Persona website also uses Docusaurus after migrating from Sphinx, emphasizing attention to accessibility details like contrast issues and navigation (00:09:25). They offered assistance and a blog post checklist for those interested in similar work (00:10:38).
- **JSON Schema Pull Request** Philippe Ombredanne provided an update on the major pull request for the type JSON Schema, which involves building a JSON Schema to validate package types and extract test files (00:13:43). This will transition from a blob of text to a structured, generated single file for each package type (00:15:04).  Philippe Ombredanne highlighted that the new JSON Schema will simplify the process and generate clear, unambiguous definitions, reducing "poetic license" in PURL type definitions. The schema also generates documentation, which can be adapted or used to generate different outputs (00:16:54).
- **Impact on Existing PRs and Migration Plan** Philippe Ombredanne acknowledged that the new schema will affect existing pull requests on package types, requiring some additional work for conversion (00:18:27). Michael Herzog clarified that they will prioritize merging the PR and then assist contributors with updating their existing PRs rather than asking them to redo the work (00:20:01).
- **Test Suite Enhancements** Philippe Ombredanne explained that the new structure includes companion test files for each JSON file, designed to be explicit and reduce ambiguity, with tests ported from previous JSON files (00:22:38). They introduced the concept of "test groups" to differentiate between base conformance and advanced parser features (00:24:07).
- **Definition of Base vs. Advanced Tests** Steve Springett inquired about the refinement of "base" versus "advanced" test definitions, and Philippe Ombredanne clarified that a test is considered "advanced" if the input is not strictly decoded components or a canonical PURL (00:25:44) (00:28:12). They noted that tests can also be marked as "expected to fail" with a reason provided (00:27:01).
- **Urgency of Merging the PR** Michael Herzog emphasized the urgency of merging the large JSON Schema PR to facilitate feedback and progress towards the new structure and the PURL Spec 0.90 release (00:29:51) (00:35:05). They plan to restructure the repository and move the VERS Spec to a separate repository (00:36:40).
- **Reviewing the PR and JSON Schema** Jon Moroney offered to review the JSON Schema PR by Friday, focusing on substantive comments (00:30:37). Philippe Ombredanne encouraged this, explaining the structure of the JSON Schema and the tests (00:31:42).
- **Test Suite Execution** Jon Moroney asked about running the test suite, to which Philippe Ombredanne responded that existing implementations use the old test suite, and the new schema will require updates to the code but should simplify adoption (00:32:50). Michael Herzog stressed that the priority is getting the schema right for the Ecma standard (00:35:05).
- **Versioned PURL Spec and Community Engagement** Michael Herzog reiterated the plan to release PURL Spec version 0.90 after Philippe Ombredanne's PR and other restructuring tasks are complete (00:20:01) (00:36:40). They also discussed re-engaging with various package communities to encourage ownership of PURL type data (00:41:49).
- **univers Release Request** Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra requested a release for univers PR 159 (https://github.com/aboutcode-org/univers/pull/159) as the py.type marker file had been merged but not yet released (00:40:03). Philippe Ombredanne confirmed they would take care of the release immediately (00:40:59).
- **cve-schema Updates and JSON Schema Version** Jon Moroney stated there were no major updates on the cve-schema (https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-schema), with the focus on supporting the 0.90 release (00:42:38). Michael Herzog brought up the need to finalize the JSON Schema version, noting discussions around Draft 7 versus 2020 (00:43:47).
- **JSON Schema Version Decision** Jon Moroney mentioned that the Go library was a blocking issue for moving to Draft 2020. Michael Herzog proposed going with Draft 7 unless there are objections, as it's the most compatible version, and they can update later (00:45:29). Steve Springett added that CycloneDX is contemplating moving to 2020 for their 2.0 version but is still exploring its capabilities (00:46:16).
- **Ajv for Strict Validation** Steve Springett mentioned using Ajv (https://github.com/ajv-validator/ajv), a JavaScript library, for strict validation of schemas in CycloneDX, which catches minor issues that most JSON parsers might ignore (00:49:51). Jon Moroney supported Ajv, noting its use in the CVE world (00:51:08).
- **PURL Logo** Abul Hasan Sheik Madhar Ali inquired about a PURL logo for the website. Philippe Ombredanne directed them to an old issue with various logo suggestions, including some professional-looking ones from Steve Springett (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/19), and encouraged them to mock something up (00:55:40).
- The meeting was adjourned.
