# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-06-11

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
    - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MnFlaXE3a2VqcnJqcTRkN2Vtb2EyMW4xbnRfMjAyNTA2MTFUMTYwMDAwWiBjX2MwODYxYWJlYmRmNjllZjBkZmVjNjgxM2IyN2JmYzdjMjk3ZDU5MThiM2EyZTk3NmZjYTdiYmViMzg1OGE5YjNAZw&tmsrc=c_c0861abebdf69ef0dfec6813b27bfc7c297d5918b3a2e976fca7bbeb3858a9b3%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Review minutes of the 2025-05-28 meeting – [not yet approved and merged]
- Overview of current core spec updating
    - GitHub project board – https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
    - Open issues/PRs –  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RKw0XB-xAPsZ09Uzj1W4ycYIvS1BVOyD/

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Jon Moroney
- Tom Alrich
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Salve J. Nilsen (CPANSec)
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be
  recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
    - John: spec update
    - Jon: nothing atm
    - Michael: standard vs spec timelines
    - Salve: share PURL discussions from CNA meeting he attended last Friday
    - Tom: nothing atm
    - Matt: website status
    - Philippe: spec status update, misc. events
- Michael clarified the distinction between the PURL Ecma standard and the core
  specification.
    - We have companion milestones: PURL Ecma-Standard v0.90 https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/milestone/8
      and PURL Core-Spec v0.90 https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/milestone/1.
      The goal: a v0.90 final draft of the standard – covering components,
      character- encoding rules, and a PURL type definition (as a JSON Schema)
      – by June 30 for submission to Ecma by September 1.  No parsing, testing
      etc. – that is part of the core spec.
    - The core spec timeline will probably have an August milestone to assess
      where we are and what if any changes might be needed in moving the PURL
      standard from v0.90 to v1.0.
    - December is a slow month for launches so we're thinking of a PURL 1.0
      launch in January, encompassing parsing, testing, website integration,
      governance for PURL types, and infrastructure.
- Michael discussed a vulnerability working group meeting the prior day that
  focused on PURLs for proprietary packages.
    - It was clear that one type is not sufficient – there can be multiple types
      for that purpose.  One proposal, for example, was a DNS-based type.  The
      conclusion: there's as much variety in proprietary software as in open
      source and we need governance and ways to manage multiple types for
      proprietary software.  The question is what are the criteria for registering
      various PURL types for proprietary, with use case examples/explanations.
    - Tom summarized some of the past discussions on the topic including types
      for software stores and the `swid` type; and he and Michael discussed how
      multiple types could address the varying needs of proprietary software
      providers.  Philippe noted that re proprietary software, it's the vendor
      that defines the namespace, whether through an app store or otherwise.
      Michael emphasized the "virtuous cycle" where vendors use their defined
      PURLs when reporting vulnerabilities.
    - Matt stressed the importance of a common identification system for all
      packages and snippets for ease of automation, and emphasized the need to
      identify proprietary packages and reference internal systems without
      customer-facing implications.  Jon M. noted that it would be helpful if a
      proprietary provider who wants to register a new PURL type would provide
      examples of how to construct an appropriate identifier with that type.
      Matt agreed and gave CycloneDX's property taxonomy as an example.  Tom:
      proprietary vendors have all sorts of different ways to distribute their
      software.  Philippe: re Jon's point re discoverability, a PURL could
      include the internal location of the package.  Matt: PURL is really an
      identifier, and identifiers are domain specific – PURL is not a URL.
      Leave each identifier to its own domain and allow PURL to represent domains
      that are proprietary.  Philippe.  Yes, completely.
- John H. summarized recent progress merging the character-encoding, namespace-name and version PRs, and opening a small subpath PR to ensure that all seven components define their respective sets of permitted characters.  He also noted ongoing discussions and PRs related to building, serializing, and parsing, which are crucial for creating syntactically correct tests and being able to validate PURLs.
- Philippe: there are two issues we need to discuss in the next week or so, both involving breaking compatibility.
    - Not encoding slashes '/', which could improve the look of PURLs for Go packages and relax slash usage in qualifiers (e.g., for alternate repository URLs).  He needs to check whether that proposed change would create any problems.
    - The second issue would be not encoding the "@" sign in the namespace for npm scopes. Jon M. clarified that npm scope is more of a naming convention and suggested it's better to think of that portion of the npm PURL as just part of the name.
- Following up on Jon M.'s comment re the npm namespace, Philippe suggested we consider a single "namespace-name" string with type-specific interpretations, since some package types don't inherently have a separate namespace and name.
- Matt: website status – renders well on mobile, good accessibility and other scores from Lighthouse testing (https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse).  His developers are ready for feedback; Michael will create a Google doc with some basic ideas.  Philippe will make Matt a maintainer of the purl-spec repo.
- Salve shared feedback from a recent CNA meeting for open source software CNAs at which PURL was discussed – warm discussion, strong opinions re PURL expectations, some slightly unrealistic perhaps, including two PURL-related pull requests he considers problematic re version ranges and the use of `generic` and `swid` PURLs.  Jon M., Salve and Philippe discussed in detail.  See https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-schema/pull/409 and https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-schema/pull/407. Philippe: `generic` is an escape hatch, a last resort at best.  Salve clarified that he was referring to the `vers` spec and not the PURL `version` component, noting that in handling version ranges, `vers` was particularly useful in identifying a range of packages affected by a particular vulnerability.
- Salve suggested updating the FAQ file with various use cases for PURLs across the supply chain to provide clearer guidance and address misunderstandings, especially for projects like the Linux kernel and curl that don't distribute traditional packages.  Philippe: re `vers` – not incompatible with Salve's proposal, can map them to one another.  Salve: `vers` solves a real problem.  Jon: semantic versioning PR – https://github.com/CVEProject/cve-schema/pull/371 – independent scheme can be put into the CVE schema.  CVE group wants to alter what semantic versioning means and could seek to alter what `vers` means as well.  The group agreed to continue this conversation with the CVE group.
- Jon: first question when he got into PURLs – what is a package?  Seems very foundational.  See https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/discussions/359.  Philippe gave examples of his views re what is/is not a package.  Salve: spent much time last year re what a package is.  He listed several criteria: a namespace, associated metadata, a unique name within that namespace – discoverable somehow within that ecosystem/namespace.  Cannot have 2+ packages with the same name.  Jon: agrees 100%: namespace is needed; the question is what is the best fit for the needs.  Salve: not complicated – each publisher needs to decide so PURL can be matched to package, especially when vulnerabilities are involved.  Philippe: important and urgent and deserves a separate discussion.
- Philippe: there have been some discussions re a type for C/C++.  Salve: same problem re the namespace constraint; Jon M. agreed. Philippe provided a link to a Google Doc with extensive discussion on this topic, including input from Red Hat.  https://docs.google.com/document/d/112Jbpoc-yXMmsYUOSFyAgqglcTYjKS7F The participants also discussed the various ways C/C++ has been/is being consumed.
- The participants discussed a wide range of topics regarding package vulnerabilities, including discoverability, VEX, disclosures, and security.txt as an existing standard that could potentially be extended to include CVEs or OSV references.
- Philippe asked and Salve agreed to open a PR re his suggestion that the FAQ be expanded.  See Salve's PR: https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/486.  Michael will prepare a proposal re a separate meeting or meetings to address the `vers` specification/standard.  Philippe emphasized the importance of following up re PURL in CVEs with Greg Kroah-Hartman (Linux kernel) and Daniel Stenberg (curl).
- The meeting was adjourned.
