# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-04-02

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 16:00 to 16:30 UTC
    - 18:00 to 18:30 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 12:30 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 09:30 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 01:00 to 01:30 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ydj-qwbs-iiv
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWliM3RyZXRpdmI4NXFoYXR1MzRkdmg0a3ZfMjAyNTAxMjJUMTcwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Minutes of the 2025-03-19 meeting -- https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/meetings/2025-03-19.md
- Overview of current core spec updating
    - GitHub project board https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
    - Component-focused encoding etc.  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1biOCUY4eCqQaYmfGDHVrASV9igYEzct6
    - Open issues/PRs https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, PURL, AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Joshua Kugler, Adobe
- Jan Kowalleck, CycloneDX, Sovereign Tech Agency, TC54 member
- Immanuel Kunz, Fraunhofer AISEC
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Doug Clarke
- Geo (George) Masters

## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, but the meeting is not being recorded.
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
    - Joshua: nothing in particular
    - Jan: there are PRs that need to be reviewed
    - Immanuel: new PR 434 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/434)
    - Philippe: character encoding
    - Michael: nothing in particular
    - Doug: nothing but perhaps could help with PR reviews
- Philippe: Re Jan's point about PRs that need reviews – there's a lot of work going on; and new PRs have continued to be opened.  Jan: we need to keep the issues and PRs narrowly focused –- there is too much commentary that is not relevant to the specific topic at issue, which interferes with an efficient and focused resolution of the PRs.  Philippe: agreed; we are working on splitting encoding and applying the narrow focus going forward.  Resolving encoding should open up many other issues/PRs to be addressed and resolved.  We all contribute to the unwanted expansion of discussions beyond the narrow focus we need.
    - Philippe: PR 416 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/416) as an example: fixing encoding in tests is premature until encoding has been agreed upon and resolved.  Jan: on the other hand, when that PR was created, it could nonetheless have easily been resolved at the time.  Philippe: agreed but resolving and merging encoding is critical.
- Philippe: PR 398 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/398) is ready to be merged.
- Philippe: Next, the new encoding PR 439 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/439).  Jan: UTF-8 before percent-encoding –- this should already be clarified.  Philippe: what other characters MUST NOT be encoded?  Jan and Philippe discussed various characters, e.g., '/'.  Philippe walked us through the current "Character encoding" language.  George: what about the '@'?  Philippe: not ambiguous when used as the first character of a namespace, e.g., by `npm`.  George: no ambiguity issue re namespace, but the language is a bit unclear in the encoding section.  Philippe: note that each component can further define encoding applied to its content.  Philippe: approved and merged PR 439.  Philippe approved and merged PR 416 as well.
- Philippe: next we'll look at namespace, name and subpath.  Jan: thinks he is done with subpath (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/394).  Philippe: will review soon but not right now.
- Philippe: Immanuel had asked to address PR 434 (add 'intdot' versioning scheme).  (Immanuel had to leave meanwhile.)  Philippe and Jan discussed.  PR 434 was merged.
- Jan: PR 440 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/440) – fixing a link.  Approved and merged.
- Michael: at some point we might want to consider future versions and how we manage that process.
- Philippe discussed the Better-PURL project – https://github.com/orgs/aboutcode-org/projects/19/views/1.  George: PURL validator is invaluable.
- Philippe: and Joshua's PR 178 (https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python/pull/178) will be merged by the end of the week.
- The meeting was adjourned.
