# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-02-19

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 17:00 to 17:30 UTC
    - 18:00 to 18:30 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 12:30 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 09:30 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 02:00 to 02:30 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ydj-qwbs-iiv
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWliM3RyZXRpdmI4NXFoYXR1MzRkdmg0a3ZfMjAyNTAxMjJUMTcwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Minutes of the 2025-02-05 meeting -- https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/meetings/2025-02-05.md
- Overview of current core spec updating
    - GitHub project board https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
    - Component-focused encoding etc.  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1biOCUY4eCqQaYmfGDHVrASV9igYEzct6
    - Open issues/PRs https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H2QAcADLaMNgcR5BMK7bQxzH5D3X-SdO

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, PURL, AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Martin Prpic, Red Hat
- Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra, Quansight
- Immanuel Kunz, Fraunhofer AISEC
- Joshua Kugler, Adobe


## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, but the meeting is not being recorded.
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Agenda items:
    - Philippe: update spec work
    - Jaime: Discuss https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/386
    - Martin: create nicer docs site, perhaps reserve package-url.com + github site
- Philippe: casing of 'purl' still a work-in-progress.
- Martin: addressed the deletion of the "Character encoding" section and matters related to explaining with clarity what characters are permitted in each component and related details for percent-encoding etc.  Discussion followed re characters, proper encoding etc.  Examples: how does one normalize a purl?  Where in the core spec do the details for each of the components belong?  Strict validation for incoming purl strings?  Separate sections for each would be helpful.  Consider informing users about problems with their purl strings.
- We reviewed and merged several core spec PRs.
- We reviewed the "Character encoding" PR (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/389).
- Joshua introduced himself, summarized his current purl work and issue(s).  He and Philippe discussed encoding, implementation and related issues including crisp, clean details for character handling, component-by-component (see, e.g., packageurl-python PR 178 – https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python/pull/178).  Philippe: goal includes queryable dataset of all known purls.
- Philippe discussed various version-related issues/PRs and possible approaches.
- Jaime discussed his usage of purls and the role and identification of dependencies, including how vers fits in.  See issue #386 (link above).  Question: could there be a single identifier containing a complete version range?  Philippe: there's a project re identifying purls for all C/C++ packages that could be relevant.  Jaime: see also PEP 725.
- The meeting was adjourned.
