# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-05-28

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 16:00 to 17:00 UTC
    - 18:00 to 19:00 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 13:00 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 10:00 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 01:00 to 02:00 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
    - https://meet.google.com/ryq-aimn-ghd
    - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MnFlaXE3a2VqcnJqcTRkN2Vtb2EyMW4xbnRfMjAyNTA1MjhUMTYwMDAwWiBjX2MwODYxYWJlYmRmNjllZjBkZmVjNjgxM2IyN2JmYzdjMjk3ZDU5MThiM2EyZTk3NmZjYTdiYmViMzg1OGE5YjNAZw&tmsrc=c_c0861abebdf69ef0dfec6813b27bfc7c297d5918b3a2e976fca7bbeb3858a9b3%40group.calendar.google.com)

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Review minutes of the 2025-05-14 meeting – [not approved and merged at the time of the call; subsequently approved, merged and available at https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/main/meetings/2025-05-14.md]
- Overview of current core spec updating
    - GitHub project board – https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
    - Open issues/PRs –  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RKw0XB-xAPsZ09Uzj1W4ycYIvS1BVOyD/
- Discuss schema for PURL types – see *Add Schema that defines PURL types* – https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/401
- Review *Update "Character encoding" and related provisions* – https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/461
- Review *Clarify namespace and name components* – https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/453

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, creator of PURL, Lead maintainer of AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Jon Moroney
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Immanuel Kunz, Fraunhofer AISEC
- George Masters
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, and the meeting will be recorded with Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking".
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
    - Matt: website help for the spec
    - Jon: nothing atm; worked on the GitHub advisory database, mappings, lots of discussion re PURLs; now at Red Hat
    - Immanuel: 2 open PRs re vers
    - Michael: planning, milestones
    - Philippe: catching up
    - John: character encoding and namespace-name PRs
    - George: nothing atm
- Matt: he manages an IBM-wide course for students to get involved in open source.  Several students based in Ireland, interested in helping with a static hosted website for the specification and related documentation.  Hopes to get started next Wed. in a call with the students, with a focus on using Pandoc for initial conversion to .md and Docusaurus for the website generation, emphasizing automation.
- Michael noted that he has started an outreach document (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eEw4oMTDLSeJP7pbWIFl83IPJ2dfCDnd/edit).  The CycloneDX website provides an interesting example of how we might approach the spec website.  Matt: keep as much as possible in .md format.
- Jon M.: Are generating and parsing PURLs part of the spec?  Philippe: yes, these are part of the spec but we need a streamlined structure, also planning to incorporate a JSON Schema for PURL types.
- Philippe and Matt discussed migrating from .rst to .md and potential content for the website beyond the specification.
- Philippe: the Common Security Advisory Framework (https://www.csaf.io/) is now an ISO standard, making (transitively) PURL an ISO standard as well since CSAF incorporates PURL and VERS.
- Philippe: re Immanuel's 2 PRs, 470 – https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/470 and 443 – https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/443, Philippe has merged one, will merge the other.  He, Immanuel and Jon M. discussed various version schemes as well as the need to be able to specify multiple version ranges in security advisories, and Philippe noted that `vers` is designed to address this need.
- John H. provided an update on the namespace-name and character-encoding PRs.
- Michael: He and John H. have been working on a practical plan.  Michael summarized the various deadlines for the PURL v0.90 and v1.0 work, with a near-term focus on finishing v0.90 by June 30.  He and Philippe noted that the `type` JSON Schema will be part of the core spec – the v0.90 and ultimately 1.0 standard – while individual `type` definitions will be handled separately, each in its own .json file.
- Michael, Philippe and Jon M. discussed the merits of JSON vs. YAML.
- Michael reiterated the importance of the timeline, and Philippe agreed to review and refine the milestones.
- Philippe and Jon M. discussed the implications of adding new types.
- Michael introduced an outreach plan (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eEw4oMTDLSeJP7pbWIFl83IPJ2dfCDnd/edit) covering the website and mailing lists.
- Michael emphasized the importance of validation testing beyond the basic test suite and finding ways to reach out to owners of various implementations.
- John H. noted that the "how to parse" and "how to build" sections in the core spec need attention.
- Philippe shared a draft blog post idea about the problems with CVE and the defunding of CVE.org (https://github.com/aboutcode-org/www.aboutcode.org/issues/3).
- The meeting was adjourned.
