# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-04-30

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 16:00 to 16:30 UTC
    - 18:00 to 18:30 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 12:30 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 09:30 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 01:00 to 01:30 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/ydj-qwbs-iiv
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWliM3RyZXRpdmI4NXFoYXR1MzRkdmg0a3ZfMjAyNTAxMjJUMTcwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Minutes of the 2025-04-16 meeting -- https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/main/meetings/2025-04-16.md
- Overview of current core spec updating
    - GitHub project board https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
	- Open issues/PRs -- https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RKw0XB-xAPsZ09Uzj1W4ycYIvS1BVOyD/
	- Component-focused encoding etc. -- https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cqAclXllebhejarivBfCHUxW_4v1i8bf

## Attendees
- Philippe Ombredanne, PURL, AboutCode, TC54-TG2 convener
- Steve Springett, OWASP Foundation / ServiceNow
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- John Horan, AboutCode
- Joshua Kugler, Adobe
- Pavel Shukhman
- George Masters

## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published, but the meeting is not being recorded.
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- The participants agreed with the proposal that for future PURL community meetings, we'll use a different Google Meet URL – https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm (also being used for the TC54-TG2 meetings) – and use the built-in video recording capabilities to record the meetings.  We'll make the recordings available via a shared Google Workspace folder but will not be posting them to YouTube.
- Michael: We'll use a shared Gdrive for a new "purl-spec" folder, which will include some relevant files that had been maintained on GitHub but given their size were not really appropriate for GH. This will serve as a sort of supplement to GitHub issues/tickets.  Those files include a proposed timeline for the spec, which will be available soon for review and comments.  Among the topics covered is a spec for types.  Philippe: good idea, but beware of fractured docs.  Michael: acknowledged, but note that some files, e.g., some .xlsx files, can simply be too large for storage on GitHub.
- Additional agenda items:
    - John: The latest updated language for the "Character encoding" section and related lead-in in the "Rules for each purl component" section.  https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/461
    - Joshua: Interested in the status of the next packageurl-python release
    - Steve: Working on updating the code for the TC54-TG2 and PURL community schedules, hope to publish later today – John will provide Steve with the Google Meet recording-capable URL we'll use going forward.
    - Pavel: The namespace in the `oci` type – see https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/425. The relevant issues include how a slash '/' is used and encoded.
    - Matt: nothing today
    - George: nothing today
    - Michael: already addressed (see just above in these minutes)
- Philippe: re Michael's mention of types, remember that Steve has a mini schema, structured, machine-readable.  Steve – Jan has been working on dividing the `type`-related specs into separate files; perhaps it would be most efficient to also put the related test cases there?  Philippe: Yes, it makes good sense to have them all in one place; and per John's comment we'll also have our existing (to be updated) tests separately, which handle, e.g., tests for various components, characters between components and so on.
- Philippe: re encoding, should we consider including in the core-spec an extract of the language from RFC 3986 section 2.1 (our cite re the percent-encoding mechanism)?
    - Steve: suggested keeping the current URL citation we have, since the underlying source will need to be referenceable in the final spec.
    - John: we currently include a URL for the publicly-available text from datatracker.ietf.org (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#section-2.1), thinks the official text might not be publicly available.
    - Matt: going forward we also need just one form of canonical PURL as a reference, e.g., for validation purposes.
    - Steve: We can add that requirement in the conformance section of the spec.
    - Philippe: Getting back to the current character-encoding PR, he will respond to the various comments @ppkarwasz has provided wrt John's latest update to the PR.
- Matt: canonical validation is critical.
    - Steve: wouldn't be that hard.
    - Matt: maybe have a GitHub repo for validation – an automated system.  Philippe: We have code in the PurlDB to do that, currently under development.  See, e.g., https://github.com/aboutcode-org/purldb/issues/614 and https://github.com/aboutcode-org/purldb/issues/614.  This can be hosted or deployed locally.  Matt: hosted with a nice front end is always great, but GitHub is free.
    - Steve: strength of formal standard for PURL– could theoretically validate all PURLs in a BOM – data validation as well as against the spec; maybe build a browser-based tool using WebAssembly, which is what they do in CycloneDX.  Matt: just have to be concerned re the language bindings, as Pavel suggested earlier.  Philippe: There are several relevant questions this should answer and data that could be provided:
        1. Is the syntax of a PURL correct?
        2. Is the content correct?
        3. Does the PURL/package exist upstream?
        4. Can you provide me with the metadata for that PURL?
    - Philippe: this will be able to be accessed via a local DB or through a remote query; plus we plan to build a consolidated dataset of all PURLs that can be used offline.  We already have the code to collect this data; the goal of the project is to distribute via multiple GitHub Actions. For now, we plan to make this available with the Python, Go and Rust libraries, able to be used in an app to do offline validation.  Matt: need to evaluate each step separately and carefully.  Philippe: agreed – he will put this all in an issue so that it's clear.
- Steve: CycloneDX's web tool handles validation – it needs some updating, and they can add the PURL to the validation capabilities.  The CycloneDX authoring tool could also have PURL added in the future.
- Matt: The most likely use case is someone who wants to validate PURLs within an SBOM - seems much more likely than a use case to validate PURLs individually.
- Michael: The validation of PURLs in an SBOM should be handled by the respective CycloneDX or SPDX SBOM validation tools because a PURL-only tool would need to include SBOM extraction/analysis tools to find the PURL data within an SBOM and there are some differences in the existing SBOM validation tools based on the CycloneDX or SPDX versions. A better approach would be to provide a PURL validation library to support the existing CycloneDX and SPDX validation tools.
- Steve: In addition, every implementation should be required to validate PURLs.  Pavel: maybe choose a representative implementation?
- The meeting was adjourned.
