# Agenda for the PURL community meeting on 2025-05-14

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
    - 16:00 to 16:30 UTC
    - 18:00 to 18:30 CEST (Europe/Brussels)
    - 12:00 to 12:30 EDT (America/New_York)
    - 09:00 to 09:30 PDT (America/Los Angeles)
    - 01:00 to 01:30 JST (Tokyo, Japan)

- **Attendee information**:
  - https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm
  - [Meeting invite](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=MWliM3RyZXRpdmI4NXFoYXR1MzRkdmg0a3ZfMjAyNTAxMjJUMTcwMDAwWiBjX2Q4YjE1NDIwZGZmMTdiNzk1OWUyOWE1MWFlMzI0MDk1MWNiZTM4ZGIxZGFlNDU5NzJhODVjOWE3MTEyMDQyMDVAZw&tmsrc=c_d8b15420dff17b7959e29a51ae3240951cbe38db1dae45972a85c9a711204205%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

## Agenda items
- Opening of the meeting and welcome
- Meetings will follow the Ecma TC54 Code of Conduct https://github.com/Ecma-TC54/tg2/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
- Minutes of the 2025-04-30 meeting -- https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/meetings/2025-04-30.md
- Overview of current core spec updating
    - GitHub project board https://github.com/orgs/package-url/projects/1/views/1
    - Open issues/PRs –  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RKw0XB-xAPsZ09Uzj1W4ycYIvS1BVOyD/
    - Component-focused encoding etc. -- https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cqAclXllebhejarivBfCHUxW_4v1i8bf

## Attendees
- Martin Prpič, Red Hat
- Matt Rutkowski, IBM
- Michael Herzog, AboutCode
- Joshua Kugler, Adobe
- Pavel Shukhman
- Jaime Rodríguez-Guerra, Quansight
- Immanuel Kunz, Fraunhofer AISEC
- John Horan, AboutCode

## Notes
- Meeting minutes are being kept and will be published; and we'll record the
  meeting to vet the usefulness of Google Meet video and Gemini "note-taking"
  in preparing the minutes.
- Our code of conduct (link in agenda above) applies to this meeting.
- Introductions.
- Additional agenda items:
    - Martin Prpič: do the proposed changes to the "Character encoding" section
      impact the version component updating?  Plus various organizational
      questions.
    - Joshua: waiting on new Python implementation release
    - Immanuel: PRs 470 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/470)
      and 443 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/443)
    - Pavel: TEA work – use of multiple PURLs for same package/ecosystem
    - Jaime: Python implementation – needs to reopen and review PRs 184 (https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python/pull/184)
      and 186 (https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python/pull/186)
    - Matt: no
    - Michael: no
    - John: no
- Martin Prpič: Regarding the version component updating, are there any changes
  in the proposed "Character encoding" update PR 461 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/461)
  that, once merged, would impact the version component updating?  John: none
  comes to mind.  Martin: will review issues attached to issue 380 ("Clarify
  spec for version" -- https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/issues/380)
  and close if they are resolved with the latest character encoding spec update.
- Martin also raised the question of updating the test suite after the
  character-encoding update is approved and merged.  Martin and John discussed
  the critical role of accurate tests in validating the updated spec, noting
  that if that is meant to be part of the 1.0 release, the test-related work
  needs to be integrated into the tentative schedule.  Martin also suggested
  requiring that changes proposed for the core spec be accompanied by
  corresponding changes to the test suite contents.
- Martin Prpič: Various organizational questions/suggestions --
    - Consider creating a dedicated PURL website that would contain a
      visually-pleasing rendered version of the specification.  Michael: Maybe
      something GitHub generates?  We discussed some ideas along these lines at
      the last TC54-TG2 meeting including doing something similar to the
      document-generation approach taken by CycloneDX.  Matt noted that at the
      TG2 meeting he'd suggested using docusaurus (https://docusaurus.io/), a
      documentation generator.  Matt has actually created a local copy and
      instantiated a default website, though he would need maintainer or
      committer access to the `purl-spec` GitHub site so he can activate the pages.
    - Use markdown instead of rst.  `.md` files can be converted to various
      outputs we want, e.g., using Pandoc (https://github.com/jgm/pandoc).
      MkDocs (https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) is `.md`-based and
      worth considering.  Michael will open an issue so we can discuss what's
      involved.  Matt: make sure Steve (Springett) has the opportunity to weigh
      in.  Michael has prepared some documentation ideas (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HbCPSnIBuemlHePHRiy_6F1kYwI-RMIr/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=109207805937002014344&rtpof=true&sd=true) and proposed adding the
      website discussion to the TG2 meeting agenda.  Matt also pasted a link to
      the `docx2md` repo (https://github.com/dogatana/docx2md) in case we need
      to convert `.docx` files to `.md`.
    - Extend this PURL community meeting to one hour.  Martin: We can use the
      additional 30 minutes, as our recent meetings have shown.  John: great
      idea, will do.
    - Use the same gdoc as a running record for each meeting, keeping the
      previous meeting notes in that gdoc as an ongoing record.  Valuable as a
      record, easy to find, and gives everyone the opportunity to review and
      add agenda items in advance of a meeting.  John: Another excellent idea,
      will do.
- Joshua: Still waiting for the next Python implementation release.  John will
  do his best to move this forward.  Michael noted that Philippe is currently
  on leave, so the release will not happen this week. Michael also suggested
  that milestones could be used in the future to track releases and included
  issues.
- Immanuel: Would like to discuss two PRs, 470 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/470)
  and 443 (https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/pull/443).  Jan (Kowalleck)
  made many of the most significant comments but is not present today, so
  Michael proposed adding the discussion about Immanuel's PRs to the agenda for
  the next TG2 meeting (scheduled for 2025-05-23 14:00 to 15:00 UTC; the Google
  Meet URL is https://meet.google.com/vwc-duqp-hcm).  Immanuel is available and
  Michael and John will alert Jan.
- Pavel: Is it possible for a single PURL to represent a single release
  containing both a Docker image and a Maven package?  Michael: There is
  currently nothing planned for this. Pavel: Is it acceptable to have two
  separate PURLs for the same package, e.g., a GitHub type and a Maven type?
  Martin: it is perfectly acceptable to have multiple PURLs representing the
  same software, e.g., identical Docker images in different repositories.
  Michael echoed this, noting that PURL granularity can vary, and the key is to
  avoid overloading the PURL.
- Jaime: Currently working on the Python implementation (https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python)
  and needs to reopen PR 184 (https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python/pull/184).
  In addition, PR 186 (https://github.com/package-url/packageurl-python/pull/186)
  – which contains tests requested by Philippe (Ombredanne, not able to attend today)
  – needs to be reviewed.  John reopened PR 184.  Jaime asked that, if possible,
    PR 186 be reviewed before the next `packageurl-python` release (i.e., the
    same release Joshua is waiting for) so it can be included in that release.
    Jaime noted PR 186 is related to `purl-spec` PR 433 (both concern `vers`
    as a qualifier).
- Michael suggested that we consider a process by which an issue/PR raised
  during the PURL community meeting would be prioritized to be covered in the
  biweekly TC54-TG2 meeting if not already resolved.
- The meeting was adjourned.
